draft-ietf-teep-otrp-over-http.md, before:

---
title: HTTP Transport for the Open Trust Protocol (OTrP)
abbrev: OTrP HTTP Transport
docname: draft-ietf-teep-otrp-over-http-01
category: info

ipr: trust200902
area: Security
workgroup: TEEP WG
keyword: Internet-Draft

stand_alone: yes
pi:
  rfcedstyle: yes
  toc: yes
  tocindent: yes
  sortrefs: yes
  symrefs: yes
  strict: yes
  comments: yes
  inline: yes
  text-list-symbols: -o*+
  docmapping: yes
author:
 -
       ins: D. Thaler
       name: Dave Thaler
       organization: Microsoft
       email: dthaler@microsoft.com

--- abstract

This document specifies the HTTP transport for the Open Trust Protocol (OTrP),
which is used to manage code and configuration data in a Trusted Execution
Environment (TEE).  An implementation of this document can run outside of any TEE,
but interacts with an OTrP implementation that runs inside a TEE.

--- middle


#  Introduction

Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs), including Intel SGX, ARM TrustZone,
Secure Elements, and others, enforce that only authorized code can execute within the TEE,
and any memory used by such code is protected against tampering or
disclosure outside the TEE.  The Open Trust Protocol (OTrP) is designed to
provision authorized code and configuration into TEEs.

To be secure against malware, an OTrP implementation (referred to as an 
OTrP "Agent" on the client side, and a "Trusted Application Manager (TAM)" on
the server side) must themselves run inside a TEE. However, the transport for OTrP,
along with typical networking stacks, need not run inside a TEE.  This split allows
the set of highly trusted code to be kept as small as possible, including allowing code
(e.g., TCP/IP) that only sees encrypted messages to be kept out of the TEE.

The OTrP specification {{!I-D.ietf-teep-opentrustprotocol}} describes the
behavior of TEEP Agents and TAMs, but does not specify the details of the transport,
an implementation of which is referred to as a
"Broker".  The purpose of this document is to provide such details.  That is,
the HTTP transport for OTrP is implemented in a Broker (typically outside
a TEE) that delivers messages up to an OTrP implementation, and accepts
messages from the OTrP implementation to be sent over a network.

# Terminology

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY",
and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described
in BCP 14 {{!RFC2119}} {{!RFC8174}} when, and only when, they appear
in all capitals, as shown here.

This document also uses various terms defined in
{{?I-D.ietf-teep-architecture}}, including Trusted Execution Environment (TEE),
Trusted Application (TA), Trusted Application Manager (TAM), TEEP Agent, and TEEP Broker.

# Use of Abstract APIs

This document refers to various APIs between a Broker and an OTrP implementation
in the abstract, meaning the literal syntax and programming language
are not specified, so that various concrete APIs can be designed
(outside of the IETF) that are compliant.

It is common in some TEE architectures (e.g., SGX) to refer to calls
into a Trusted Application (TA) as "ECALLs" (or enclave-calls), and calls
out from a Trusted Application (TA) as "OCALLs" (or out-calls).

In other TEE architectures, there may be no OCALLs, but merely data returned
from calls into a TA.  This document attempts to be agnostic as to the
concrete API architecture.  As such, abstract APIs used in this document
will refer to calls into a TA as API calls, and will simply refer to
"passing data" back out of the TA.  A concrete API might pass data
back via an OCALL or via data returned from an API call.

This document will also refer to passing "no" data back out of a TA.
In an OCALL-based architecture, this might be implemented by not making
any such call.  In a return-based architecture, this might be implemented
by returning 0 bytes.

# Use of HTTP as a Transport

This document uses HTTP {{!I-D.ietf-httpbis-semantics}} as a transport.
When not called out explicitly in this document, all implementation recommendations
in {{?I-D.ietf-httpbis-bcp56bis}} apply to use of HTTP by OTrP.  

Redirects MAY be automatically followed, and no additional request headers 
beyond those specified by HTTP need be modified or
removed upon a following such a redirect.

Content is not intended to be treated as active by browsers and so HTTP responses
with content SHOULD have the following headers as explained in Section 4.12 of
{{I-D.ietf-httpbis-bcp56bis}} (replacing the content type with
the relevant OTrP content type per the OTrP specification):

~~~~
    Content-Type: <content type>
    Cache-Control: no-store
    X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
    Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'none'
    Referrer-Policy: no-referrer
~~~~

Only the POST method is specified for TAM resources exposed over HTTP.
A URI of such a resource is referred to as a "TAM URI".  A TAM URI can
be any HTTP(S) URI.  The URI to use is configured in an TEEP Agent
via an out-of-band mechanism, as discussed in the next section.

When HTTPS is used, TLS certificates MUST be checked according to {{!RFC2818}}.

# TEEP Broker Behavior

## Receiving a request to install a new Trusted Application

When the TEEP Broker receives a notification (e.g., from an application installer)
that an application has a dependency on a given Trusted Application (TA)
being available in a given type of TEE, the notification will contain the following:

 - A unique identifier of the TA

 - Optionally, any metadata to pass to the TEEP Agent.  This might
   include a TAM URI provided in the application manifest, for example.

 - Optionally, any requirements that may affect the choice of TEE,
   if multiple are available to the TEEP Broker.

When such a notification is received, the TEEP Broker first identifies
in an implementation-dependent way which TEE (if any) is most appropriate
based on the constraints expressed.  If there is only one TEE, the choice
is obvious.  Otherwise, the choice might be based on factors such as
capabilities of available TEE(s) compared with TEE requirements in the notification.

The TEEP Broker then informs the TEEP Agent in that TEE by invoking
an appropriate "RequestTA" API that identifies the TA needed and any other
associated metadata.  The TEEP Broker need not know whether the TEE already has
such a TA installed or whether it is up to date.

The TEEP Agent will either (a) pass no data back, (b) pass back a TAM URI to connect to,
or (c) pass back a message buffer and TAM URI to send it to.  The TAM URI
passed back may or may not be the same as the TAM URI, if any, provided by
the broker, depending on the TEEP Agent's configuration.  If they differ,
the TEEP Broker MUST use the TAM URI passed back.

### Session Creation {#client-start}

If no data is passed back, the TEEP Broker simply informs its client (e.g., the
application installer) of success.

If the TEEP Agent passes back a TAM URI with no message buffer, the TEEP Broker
attempts to create session state,
then sends an HTTP(S) POST to the TAM URI with an Accept header
and an empty body. The HTTP request is then associated with the TEEP Broker's session state.

If the TEEP Agent instead passes back a TAM URI with a message buffer, the TEEP Broker
attempts to create session state and handles the message buffer as
specified in {{send-msg}}.

Session state consists of:

 - Any context (e.g., a handle) that identifies the API session with the TEEP Agent.

 - Any context that identifies an HTTP request, if one is outstanding.  Initially, none exists.

## Getting a message buffer back from an TEEP Agent {#send-msg}

When a message buffer (and TAM URI) is passed to a TEEP Broker from an TEEP Agent, the
TEEP Broker MUST do the following, using the TEEP Broker's session state associated
with its API call to the TEEP Agent.

The TEEP Broker sends an HTTP POST request to the TAM URI with Accept
and Content-Type headers with the OTrP media type in use, and a body
containing the OTrP message buffer provided by the TEEP Agent.
The HTTP request is then associated with the TEEP Broker's session state.

## Receiving an HTTP response {#http-response}

When an HTTP response is received in response to a request associated
with a given session state, the TEEP Broker MUST do the following.

If the HTTP response body is empty, the TEEP Broker's task is complete, and
it can delete its session state, and its task is done.

If instead the HTTP response body is not empty,
the TEEP Broker calls a "ProcessOTrPMessage" API (Section 6.2 of {{I-D.ietf-teep-opentrustprotocol}})
to pass the response body to the TEEP Agent
associated with the session.  The TEEP Agent will then pass no data back,
or pass pack a message buffer.

If no data is passed back, the TEEP Broker's task is complete, and it
can delete its session state, and inform its client (e.g., the application
installer) of success.

If instead the TEEP Agent passes back a message buffer, the TEEP Broker
handles the message buffer as specified in {{send-msg}}.

## Handling checks for policy changes

An implementation MUST provide a way to periodically check for OTrP policy changes.
This can be done in any implementation-specific manner, such as:

A) The TEEP Broker might call into the TEEP Agent at an interval previously specified by the TEEP Agent.
   This approach requires that the TEEP Broker be capable of running a periodic timer.

B) The TEEP Broker might be informed when an existing TA is invoked, and call into the TEEP Agent if
   more time has passed than was previously specified by the TEEP Agent.  This approach allows
   the device to go to sleep for a potentially long period of time.

C) The TEEP Broker might be informed when any attestation attempt determines that the device
   is out of compliance, and call into the TEEP Agent to remediate.

The TEEP Broker informs the TEEP Agent by invoking an appropriate "RequestPolicyCheck" API.
The TEEP Agent will either (a) pass no data back, (b) pass back a TAM URI to connect to,
or (c) pass back a message buffer and TAM URI to send it to.  Processing then continues
as specified in {{client-start}}.

## Error handling

If any local error occurs where the TEEP Broker cannot get
a message buffer (empty or not) back from the TEEP Agent, the
TEEP Broker deletes its session state, and informs its client (e.g.,
the application installer) of a failure.

If any HTTP request results in an HTTP error response or
a lower layer error (e.g., network unreachable), the
TEEP Broker calls the TEEP Agent's "ProcessError" API, and then
deletes its session state and informs its client of a failure.

# TAM Broker Behavior

## Receiving an HTTP POST request

When an HTTP POST request is received with an empty body,
the TAM Broker invokes the TAM's "ProcessConnect" API.  The TAM will then
pass back a (possibly empty) message buffer.

When an HTTP POST request is received with a non-empty body, the TAM Broker calls the TAM's
"ProcessOTrPMessage" API to pass it the request body. The TAM will 
then pass back a (possibly empty) message buffer.

## Getting an empty buffer back from the TAM

If the TAM passes back an empty buffer, the TAM Broker sends a successful
(2xx) response with no body.

## Getting a message buffer from the TAM

If the TAM passes back a non-empty buffer, the TAM Broker
generates a successful (2xx) response with a Content-Type
header with the OTrP media type in use, and with the message buffer as the body.

## Error handling

If any error occurs where the TAM Broker cannot get
a message buffer (empty or not) back from the TAM, the
TAM Broker generates an appropriate HTTP error response.

# Sample message flow

The following shows a sample OTrP message flow that uses application/otrp+json
as the Content-Type.

1. An application installer determines (e.g., from an app manifest)
   that the application has a dependency on TA "X", and passes
   this notification to the TEEP Broker.  The TEEP Broker
   picks an TEEP Agent (e.g., the only one available) based on
   this notification.

2. The TEEP Broker calls the TEEP Agent's "RequestTA" API, passing
   TA Needed = X.

3. The TEEP Agent finds that no such TA is already installed,
   but that it can be obtained from a given TAM.  The TEEP
   Agent passes the TAM URI (e.g., "https://example.com/tam")
   to the TEEP Broker.  (If the TEEP Agent already had a cached TAM 
   certificate that it trusts, it could skip to step 9 instead and 
   generate a GetDeviceStateResponse.)

4. The TEEP Broker sends an HTTP POST request to the TAM URI:

               POST /tam HTTP/1.1
               Host: example.com
               Accept: application/otrp+json
               Content-Length: 0
               User-Agent: Foo/1.0

5. The TAM Broker receives the HTTP POST request, and calls
   the TAM's "ProcessConnect" API.

6. The TAM generates an OTrP message (typically GetDeviceStateRequest
   is the first message) and passes it to the TAM Broker.

7. The TAM Broker sends an HTTP successful response with 
   the OTrP message in the body:

               HTTP/1.1 200 OK
               Content-Type: application/otrp+json
               Content-Length: [length of OTrP message here]
               Server: Bar/2.2
               Cache-Control: no-store
               X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
               Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'none'
               Referrer-Policy: no-referrer

               [OTrP message here]

8. The TEEP Broker gets the HTTP response, extracts the OTrP
   message and calls the TEEP Agent's "ProcessOTrPMessage" API to pass it the message.

9. The TEEP Agent processes the OTrP message, and generates an OTrP
   response (e.g., GetDeviceStateResponse) which it passes back
   to the TEEP Broker.

10. The TEEP Broker gets the OTrP message buffer and sends
    an HTTP POST request to the TAM URI, with the OTrP message in the body:

               POST /tam HTTP/1.1
               Host: example.com
               Accept: application/otrp+json
               Content-Type: application/otrp+json
               Content-Length: [length of OTrP message here]
               User-Agent: Foo/1.0

               [OTrP message here]

11. The TAM Broker receives the HTTP POST request, and calls
    the TAM's "ProcessOTrPMessage" API.

12. Steps 6-11 are then repeated until the TAM passes no data back
    to the TAM Broker in step 6.

13. The TAM Broker sends an HTTP successful response with
    no body:

               HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
               Server: Bar/2.2

14. The TEEP Broker deletes its session state.

# Security Considerations {#security}

Although OTrP is protected end-to-end inside of HTTP, there is still value
in using HTTPS for transport, since HTTPS can provide additional protections
as discussed in Section 6 of {{I-D.ietf-httpbis-bcp56bis}}.  As such, Broker
implementations MUST support HTTPS.  The choice of HTTP vs HTTPS at runtime
is up to policy, where an administrator configures the TAM URI to be used,
but it is expected that real deployments will always use HTTPS TAM URIs.

# IANA Considerations

This document has no actions for IANA.

--- back

Commit message:

Scope document to Agent-to-TAM communication scenario
Addresses issue #2

Signed-off-by: Dave Thaler <dthaler@microsoft.com>

draft-ietf-teep-otrp-over-http.md, after:

---
title: HTTP Transport for Open Trust Protocol (OTrP) Agent-to-TAM Communication
abbrev: OTrP HTTP Transport
docname: draft-ietf-teep-otrp-over-http-02
category: info

ipr: trust200902
area: Security
workgroup: TEEP WG
keyword: Internet-Draft

stand_alone: yes
pi:
  rfcedstyle: yes
  toc: yes
  tocindent: yes
  sortrefs: yes
  symrefs: yes
  strict: yes
  comments: yes
  inline: yes
  text-list-symbols: -o*+
  docmapping: yes
author:
 -
       ins: D. Thaler
       name: Dave Thaler
       organization: Microsoft
       email: dthaler@microsoft.com

--- abstract

This document specifies the HTTP transport for the Open Trust Protocol (OTrP),
which is used to manage code and configuration data in a Trusted Execution
Environment (TEE).  An implementation of this document can (if desired) run outside of any TEE,
but interacts with an OTrP implementation that runs inside a TEE.

--- middle


#  Introduction

Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs), including environments based on Intel SGX, ARM TrustZone,
Secure Elements, and others, enforce that only authorized code can execute within the TEE,
and any memory used by such code is protected against tampering or
disclosure outside the TEE.  The Open Trust Protocol (OTrP) is designed to
provision authorized code and configuration into TEEs.

To be secure against malware, an OTrP implementation (referred to as a
TEEP "Agent" on the client side, and a "Trusted Application Manager (TAM)" on
the server side) must themselves run inside a TEE. However, the transport for OTrP,
along with typical networking stacks, need not run inside a TEE.  This split allows
the set of highly trusted code to be kept as small as possible, including allowing code
(e.g., TCP/IP) that only sees encrypted messages to be kept out of the TEE.

The OTrP specification {{!I-D.ietf-teep-opentrustprotocol}} describes the
behavior of TEEP Agents and TAMs, but does not specify the details of the transport,
an implementation of which is referred to as a
"Broker".  The purpose of this document is to provide such details.  That is,
the HTTP transport for OTrP is implemented in a Broker (whether inside or outside
a TEE) that delivers messages up to an OTrP implementation, and accepts
messages from the OTrP implementation to be sent over a network.

There are two categories of scenarios in which OTrP could be deployed:

1. TAMs are reachable on the Internet, and Agents are on networks that might be
   behind a firewall, so that communication must be initiated by an Agent.

2. Agents are reachable on the Internet, and TAMs are on networks that might be
   behind a firewall, so that communication must be initiated by a TAM.

This document focuses primarily on the first category, but some sections ({{use-of-http}}
and {{security}}) may apply to the second category as well.  A fuller
discussion of the second category may be handled by a separate document.

# Terminology

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY",
and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described
in BCP 14 {{!RFC2119}} {{!RFC8174}} when, and only when, they appear
in all capitals, as shown here.

This document also uses various terms defined in
{{?I-D.ietf-teep-architecture}}, including Trusted Execution Environment (TEE),
Trusted Application (TA), Trusted Application Manager (TAM), TEEP Agent, and TEEP Broker.

# Use of Abstract APIs

This document refers to various APIs between a Broker and an OTrP implementation
in the abstract, meaning the literal syntax and programming language
are not specified, so that various concrete APIs can be designed
(outside of the IETF) that are compliant.

It is common in some TEE architectures (e.g., SGX) to refer to calls
into a Trusted Application (TA) as "ECALLs" (or enclave-calls), and calls
out from a Trusted Application (TA) as "OCALLs" (or out-calls).

In other TEE architectures, there may be no calls out from a TA, but merely data returned
from calls into a TA.  This document attempts to be agnostic as to the
concrete API architecture.  As such, abstract APIs used in this document
will refer to calls into a TA as API calls, and will simply refer to
"passing data" back out of the TA.  A concrete API might pass data
back via an OCALL or via data returned from an API call.

This document will also refer to passing "no" data back out of a TA.
In an OCALL-based architecture, this might be implemented by not making
any such call.  In a return-based architecture, this might be implemented
by returning 0 bytes.

# Use of HTTP as a Transport {#use-of-http}

This document uses HTTP {{!I-D.ietf-httpbis-semantics}} as a transport.
When not called out explicitly in this document, all implementation recommendations
in {{?I-D.ietf-httpbis-bcp56bis}} apply to use of HTTP by OTrP.  

Redirects MAY be automatically followed, and no additional request headers 
beyond those specified by HTTP need be modified or
removed upon a following such a redirect.

Content is not intended to be treated as active by browsers and so HTTP responses
with content SHOULD have the following headers as explained in Section 4.12 of
{{I-D.ietf-httpbis-bcp56bis}} (replacing the content type with
the relevant OTrP content type per the OTrP specification):

~~~~
    Content-Type: <content type>
    Cache-Control: no-store
    X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
    Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'none'
    Referrer-Policy: no-referrer
~~~~

Only the POST method is specified for TAM resources exposed over HTTP.
A URI of such a resource is referred to as a "TAM URI".  A TAM URI can
be any HTTP(S) URI.  The URI to use is configured in a TEEP Agent
via an out-of-band mechanism, as discussed in the next section.

When HTTPS is used, TLS certificates MUST be checked according to {{!RFC2818}}.

# TEEP Broker Behavior

## Receiving a request to install a new Trusted Application

When the TEEP Broker receives a local notification (e.g., from an application installer)
that an application has a dependency on a given Trusted Application (TA)
being available in a given type of TEE, the notification will contain the following:

 - A unique identifier of the TA

 - Optionally, any metadata to pass to the TEEP Agent.  This might
   include a TAM URI provided in the application manifest, for example.

 - Optionally, any requirements that may affect the choice of TEE,
   if multiple are available to the TEEP Broker.

When such a notification is received, the TEEP Broker first identifies
in an implementation-dependent way which TEE (if any) is most appropriate
based on the constraints expressed.  If there is only one TEE, the choice
is obvious.  Otherwise, the choice might be based on factors such as
capabilities of available TEE(s) compared with TEE requirements in the notification.

The TEEP Broker then informs the TEEP Agent in that TEE by invoking
an appropriate "RequestTA" API that identifies the TA needed and any other
associated metadata.  The TEEP Broker need not know whether the TEE already has
such a TA installed or whether it is up to date.

The TEEP Agent will either (a) pass no data back, (b) pass back a TAM URI to connect to,
or (c) pass back a message buffer and TAM URI to send it to.  The TAM URI
passed back may or may not be the same as the TAM URI, if any, provided by
the broker, depending on the TEEP Agent's configuration.  If they differ,
the TEEP Broker MUST use the TAM URI passed back.

### Session Creation {#client-start}

If no data is passed back, the TEEP Broker simply informs its client (e.g., the
application installer) of success.

If the TEEP Agent passes back a TAM URI with no message buffer, the TEEP Broker
attempts to create session state,
then sends an HTTP(S) POST to the TAM URI with an Accept header
and an empty body. The HTTP request is then associated with the TEEP Broker's session state.

If the TEEP Agent instead passes back a TAM URI with a message buffer, the TEEP Broker
attempts to create session state and handles the message buffer as
specified in {{send-msg}}.

Session state consists of:

 - Any context (e.g., a handle) that identifies the API session with the TEEP Agent.

 - Any context that identifies an HTTP request, if one is outstanding.  Initially, none exists.

## Getting a message buffer back from a TEEP Agent {#send-msg}

When a message buffer (and TAM URI) is passed to a TEEP Broker from a TEEP Agent, the
TEEP Broker MUST do the following, using the TEEP Broker's session state associated
with its API call to the TEEP Agent.

The TEEP Broker sends an HTTP POST request to the TAM URI with Accept
and Content-Type headers with the OTrP media type in use, and a body
containing the OTrP message buffer provided by the TEEP Agent.
The HTTP request is then associated with the TEEP Broker's session state.

## Receiving an HTTP response {#http-response}

When an HTTP response is received in response to a request associated
with a given session state, the TEEP Broker MUST do the following.

If the HTTP response body is empty, the TEEP Broker's task is complete, and
it can delete its session state, and its task is done.

If instead the HTTP response body is not empty,
the TEEP Broker calls a "ProcessOTrPMessage" API (Section 6.2 of {{I-D.ietf-teep-opentrustprotocol}})
to pass the response body to the TEEP Agent
associated with the session.  The TEEP Agent will then pass no data back,
or pass back a message buffer.

If no data is passed back, the TEEP Broker's task is complete, and it
can delete its session state, and inform its client (e.g., the application
installer) of success.

If instead the TEEP Agent passes back a message buffer, the TEEP Broker
handles the message buffer as specified in {{send-msg}}.

## Handling checks for policy changes

An implementation MUST provide a way to periodically check for OTrP policy changes.
This can be done in any implementation-specific manner, such as:

A) The TEEP Broker might call into the TEEP Agent at an interval previously specified by the TEEP Agent.
   This approach requires that the TEEP Broker be capable of running a periodic timer.

B) The TEEP Broker might be informed when an existing TA is invoked, and call into the TEEP Agent if
   more time has passed than was previously specified by the TEEP Agent.  This approach allows
   the device to go to sleep for a potentially long period of time.

C) The TEEP Broker might be informed when any attestation attempt determines that the device
   is out of compliance, and call into the TEEP Agent to remediate.

The TEEP Broker informs the TEEP Agent by invoking an appropriate "RequestPolicyCheck" API.
The TEEP Agent will either (a) pass no data back, (b) pass back a TAM URI to connect to,
or (c) pass back a message buffer and TAM URI to send it to.  Processing then continues
as specified in {{client-start}}.

## Error handling

If any local error occurs where the TEEP Broker cannot get
a message buffer (empty or not) back from the TEEP Agent, the
TEEP Broker deletes its session state, and informs its client (e.g.,
the application installer) of a failure.

If any HTTP request results in an HTTP error response or
a lower layer error (e.g., network unreachable), the
TEEP Broker calls the TEEP Agent's "ProcessError" API, and then
deletes its session state and informs its client of a failure.

# TAM Broker Behavior

## Receiving an HTTP POST request

When an HTTP POST request is received with an empty body,
the TAM Broker invokes the TAM's "ProcessConnect" API.  The TAM will then
pass back a (possibly empty) message buffer.

When an HTTP POST request is received with a non-empty body, the TAM Broker calls the TAM's
"ProcessOTrPMessage" API to pass it the request body. The TAM will 
then pass back a (possibly empty) message buffer.

## Getting an empty buffer back from the TAM

If the TAM passes back an empty buffer, the TAM Broker sends a successful
(2xx) response with no body.

## Getting a message buffer from the TAM

If the TAM passes back a non-empty buffer, the TAM Broker
generates a successful (2xx) response with a Content-Type
header with the OTrP media type in use, and with the message buffer as the body.

## Error handling

If any error occurs where the TAM Broker cannot get
a message buffer (empty or not) back from the TAM, the
TAM Broker generates an appropriate HTTP error response.

# Sample message flow

The following shows a sample OTrP message flow that uses application/otrp+json
as the Content-Type.

1. An application installer determines (e.g., from an app manifest)
   that the application has a dependency on TA "X", and passes
   this notification to the TEEP Broker.  The TEEP Broker
   picks a TEEP Agent (e.g., the only one available) based on
   this notification.

2. The TEEP Broker calls the TEEP Agent's "RequestTA" API, passing
   TA Needed = X.

3. The TEEP Agent finds that no such TA is already installed,
   but that it can be obtained from a given TAM.  The TEEP
   Agent passes the TAM URI (e.g., "https://example.com/tam")
   to the TEEP Broker.  (If the TEEP Agent already had a cached TAM 
   certificate that it trusts, it could skip to step 9 instead and 
   generate a GetDeviceStateResponse.)

4. The TEEP Broker sends an HTTP POST request to the TAM URI:

               POST /tam HTTP/1.1
               Host: example.com
               Accept: application/otrp+json
               Content-Length: 0
               User-Agent: Foo/1.0

5. The TAM Broker receives the HTTP POST request, and calls
   the TAM's "ProcessConnect" API.

6. The TAM generates an OTrP message (where typically GetDeviceStateRequest
   is the first message) and passes it to the TAM Broker.

7. The TAM Broker sends an HTTP successful response with 
   the OTrP message in the body:

               HTTP/1.1 200 OK
               Content-Type: application/otrp+json
               Content-Length: [length of OTrP message here]
               Server: Bar/2.2
               Cache-Control: no-store
               X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
               Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'none'
               Referrer-Policy: no-referrer

               [OTrP message here]

8. The TEEP Broker gets the HTTP response, extracts the OTrP
   message and calls the TEEP Agent's "ProcessOTrPMessage" API to pass it the message.

9. The TEEP Agent processes the OTrP message, and generates an OTrP
   response (e.g., GetDeviceStateResponse) which it passes back
   to the TEEP Broker.

10. The TEEP Broker gets the OTrP message buffer and sends
    an HTTP POST request to the TAM URI, with the OTrP message in the body:

               POST /tam HTTP/1.1
               Host: example.com
               Accept: application/otrp+json
               Content-Type: application/otrp+json
               Content-Length: [length of OTrP message here]
               User-Agent: Foo/1.0

               [OTrP message here]

11. The TAM Broker receives the HTTP POST request, and calls
    the TAM's "ProcessOTrPMessage" API.

12. Steps 6-11 are then repeated until the TAM passes no data back
    to the TAM Broker in step 6.

13. The TAM Broker sends an HTTP successful response with
    no body:

               HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
               Server: Bar/2.2

14. The TEEP Broker deletes its session state.

# Security Considerations {#security}

Although OTrP is protected end-to-end inside of HTTP, there is still value
in using HTTPS for transport, since HTTPS can provide additional protections
as discussed in Section 6 of {{I-D.ietf-httpbis-bcp56bis}}.  As such, Broker
implementations MUST support HTTPS.  The choice of HTTP vs HTTPS at runtime
is up to policy, where an administrator configures the TAM URI to be used,
but it is expected that real deployments will always use HTTPS TAM URIs.

# IANA Considerations

This document has no actions for IANA.

--- back
